---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 2.03 has been released!
---
h2. Mroonga 2.03 has been released!

"Mroonga 2.03":/docs/news.html#release-2-03 has been released!

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics for this release:

* Supported disable/enable keys in bulk insert!
* Supported mroonga_match_escalation_threshold
* Supported installing by Homebrew

h3. CAUTION!!!

This release has a backward incompatible change against multiple column index.
If you have any tables that uses "storage mode":/docs/userguide/storage.html and any multiple comlumn indexes, please recreate those indexes by @ALTER TABLE DISABLE KEYS@ and @ALTER TABLE ENBALE KEYS@ as follows:

<pre>
mysql> ALTER TABLE table_name DISABLE KEYS;
mysql> ALTER TABLE table_name ENABLE KEYS;
</pre>

h3. Supported disable/enable keys in bulk insert!

Mroonga supported disable/enable keys in bulk insert.
Now, mroonga enables to restore mysqldump data faster than ever.

Note that multiple column index is not supported yet.

Note that ALTER TABLE DISABLE KEYS and ALTER TABLE ENABLE KEYS does not work in wrapper mode.

h3. Supported mroonga_match_escalation_threshold

You can customize the threshold to determin whether search method is escalated.

See "mroonga-match-escalation-threshold":/docs/reference.html#mroonga-match-escalation-threshold for details.

h3. Supported installing by Homebrew

You can install mroonga by Homebrew on Mac OS X.

See "Install:Mac OS X":http://mroonga.org/docs/install.html#mac-os-x for details.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.03 - 2012/05/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-03 about detailed changes since 2.02.

Let's search by mroonga!
