---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 2.05 has been released!
description: Mroonga 2.0.5 has been released!
---
h2. Mroonga 2.05 has been released!

"Mroonga 2.05":/docs/news.html#release-2-05 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

This release has a backward incompatible change against SET column and ENUM.
If you use SET column or ENUM that has the number of elements < 256 in Storage mode, please recreate (dump and restore) database.

There is four topics for this release:

* Supported index for SET column
* Supported Fedora 17
* Supported UNSIGNED types
* Reduced storage size for ENUM

h3. Supported index for SET column

Mroonga supports SET column, but does not support SET column with index.
This release supports SET column with index. Now, mroonga enables to search SET column faster.

h3. Supported Fedora 17

Fedora 17 distribution was released May 29, 2012. But, we didn't provide Fedora 17 RPM packages yet.

This release provides Fedora 17 RPM packages.

h3. Supported UNSIGNED types

Mroonga did not support UNSIGNED types yet.
This release supports following UNSIGNED types.

* TINYINT UNSIGNED
* SMALLINT UNSIGNED
* MEDIUMINT UNSIGNED
* INT UNSIGNED
* BIGINT UNSIGNED

h3. Reduced storage size for ENUM

ENUM requires 1 byte storage size for the number of elements < 256, 2 bytes storage size for the number of elements >= 256.

Before this release, ENUM always uses 2 byte storage size.
By this release, ENUM that has the number of elements < 256 uses 1 byte storage size.

This is incompatible change, but users who use ENUM that has the number of elements < 256 can obtain the merit which reduce storage size.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.05 - 2012/07/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-05 about detailed changes since 2.04.

Let's search by mroonga!
