---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 2.02 has been released!
---
## Mroonga 2.02 has been released!

[Mroonga 2.02](/docs/news.html#release-2-02) has been released!

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two backward incompatibility about database. If you have
`ENUM` type that has equal to or greater than 256 values or `SET` type
that has equal to or greater than 32 values, you need to dump before
upgrade and restore after upgrade.

There are tow topics for this release:

-   The package sign key is changed
-   Supported similar search!

### The package sign key is changed

The package sign key is changed since this release. Here is the new sign
key:

    % gpg --list-keys --fingerprint 45499429
    pub   1024D/45499429 2012-04-28
          Key fingerprint = C97E 4649 A205 1D0C EA1A  73F9 72A7 496B 4549 9429
    uid                  groonga Key (groonga Official Signing Key) 

If you have already installed groonga packages, you need to import the
new key by the followings:

Debian/Ubuntu:

    % sudo apt-get update
    % sudo apt-get -V -y install groonga-keyring

CentOS/Fedora:

    % sudo yum update
    % sudo yum install --nogpgcheck -y groonga-repository

### Supported similar search!

Similar search has been supported since this release!

Since this release, `MATCH(...) AGAINST(... IN NATURAL LANGUAGE MODE)`
does similar search instead of pharase search. This is incompatible and
experimental change. Your comments about this change are welcome!

The reason for this change is that MyISAM also does similar search
instead of pharase search.

The returned score computation method may be changed in the future.

### Conclusion

See [Release 2.02 - 2012/04/29](/docs/news.html#release-2-02) about
detailed changes since 2.01.

Let's search by mroonga!
