---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 2.10 has been released!
description: Mroonga 2.10 has been released!
published: false
---

In this year, there are many shipped improvements and remarkable features for mroonga. So, it is a time to bump version to 2.10! :-)

h2. Mroonga 2.10 has been released!

"Mroonga 2.10":/docs/news.html#release-2-10 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are three topics for this release:

* Supported MySQL 5.6.9 rc
* Improved to support ENABLE/DISABLE KEYS against non system charset
* Supported to use GROUP BY with index

h3. Supported MySQL 5.6.9 rc

This release began to support MySQL 5.6.9 rc.

This is the latest development release about MySQL.

mroonga packages is released for each distributions, but not built for MySQL 5.6.9 rc yet.

If you want to use mroonga with MySQL 5.6.9 rc soon, please use mroonga source archive. Download "mroonga 2.10":http://packages.groonga.org/source/mroonga/mroonga-2.10.tar.gz.

And build with MySQL 5.6.9 rc for your own.

If you want to use mroonga rpm package with MySQL 5.6.x, you may be able to use "wing repository":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/wing-repo/ provided by wing.

h3. Improved to support ENABLE/DISABLE KEYS against non system charset

This release improved to support ENABLE/DISABLE KEYS even though there are tables which use non default charset.

If you already unify the charset for all tables such as UTF-8, this change does not affects.

h3. Supported to use GROUP BY with index

In this release, you can execute 'GROUP BY' query with index.

As a result, you can get search results fast.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 2.08 - 2012/10/29":/docs/news.html#release-2-08 about detailed changes since 2.07.

Let's search by mroonga!
