---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 2.07 has been released!
description: Mroonga 2.0.7 has been released!
---
## Mroonga 2.07 has been released!

[Mroonga 2.07](/docs/news.html#release-2-07) has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and
geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and
fulltext search engine.

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

This release has a backward compatibility about database.

There are two topics for this release:

-   Supported experimental snippet function
-   Enabled AppArmor configuration for MeCab

### Supported experimental snippet function

[Tritonn project](http://qwik.jp/tritonn/about_en.html) which is
ancestor of mroonga had provided snippet UDF which extract keyword and
surrounding text.

This release began to support `mroonga_snippet` function which provides
similar functionality like snippet UDF.

Note that this feature is experimental.

Here is the syntax about `mroonga_snippet` function:

      SELECT mroonga_snippet(document, max_length, max_count, encoding,
        skip_leading_spaces, escape, snippet_prefix, snippet_suffix, 
        word1, word1_prefix, word1_prefix,
        word2, word2_prefix, word2_prefix, ...);

We show how to use above experimental feature.

The theme is "Searching the document which contains 'fulltext' as a
keyword, then if the document contains 'MySQL' or 'search', extract
matched keyword and surrounding text".

The solution is using the `mroonga_snippet` function and
`MATCH ... AGAINST` syntax.

Confirm following the schema definitions, the sample data and the
execution example.

Here is the schema defintions:

      CREATE TABLE `snippet_test` (
        `id` int(11) NOT NULL,
        `text` text,
        PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
        FULLTEXT KEY `text` (`text`)
      ) ENGINE=mroonga DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8

Here is the sample data:

      insert into snippet_test (id, text) values (1, 'An open-source fulltext search engine and column store.');
      insert into snippet_test (id, text) values (2, 'An open-source storage engine for fast fulltext search with MySQL.');
      insert into snippet_test (id, text) values (3, 'Tritonn is a patched version of MySQL that supports better fulltext search function with Senna.');

Here is the results of execution examples:

      mysql> select * from snippet_test;
      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      | id | text                                                                                            |
      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |  1 | An open-source fulltext search engine and column store.                                         |
      |  2 | An open-source storage engine for fast fulltext search with MySQL.                              |
      |  3 | Tritonn is a patched version of MySQL that supports better fulltext search function with Senna. |
      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      3 rows in set (0.00 sec)

      mysql> select id, mroonga_snippet(text, 8, 2, 'ascii_general_ci', 1, 1, '...', '...', 
               'fulltext', '', '', 
               'MySQL', '', '', 
               'search', '', '') 
               from snippet_test where match(text) against ('fulltext');

      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      | id | (...ommited about query...)                                                         |
      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      |  1 | ...fulltext...... search ...|
      |  2 | ...fulltext...... search ...|
      |  3 | ...f MySQL ......fulltext...|
      +----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
      3 rows in set (0.00 sec)

As you can see, by using with `MATCH ... AGAINST` syntax, you can
extract the parts which contains not only 'fulltext' keyword, but also
'MySQL' or 'search'.

See [How to get snippet (Keyword in
context)](/docs/userguide/storage.html#how-to-get-snippet-keyword-in-context)
about `mroonga_snippet` function.

### Enabled AppArmor configuration for MeCab

There was no configuration setting for AppArmor about the dictionary of
MeCab.

If you use AppArmor introduced in Ubuntu, there is a case that mysqld
can not access the dictionary of MeCab.

We have added AppArmor configuration for MeCab as it is incovenience for
mroonga user.

### Conclusion

See [Release 2.07 - 2012/09/29](/docs/news.html#release-2-07) about
detailed changes since 2.06.

Let's search by mroonga!
