---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 1.20 has been released
---
h2. Mroonga 1.20 has been released

"Mroonga 1.20":/docs/news.html#release-1-20 has been released!

How to install:: "Install":/docs/install.html

h3. CAUTION!!!

This release requires database dump and restore for upgrading. Here are upgrade sequence.

In this release, mroonga has two changes that requires database recreation:

# Storage engine name is changed to "mroonga" from "groonga".
# Groonga's native time data value are used for DATE, DATETIME and TIMESTAMP type values.

We need to modify dumped database to change "ENGINE=groonga" in "CREATE TABLE" SQL. Here are upgrade sequence.

We dump a database that uses mroonga:

<pre>
% mysqldump MY_MROONGA_DATABASE > database-groonga.dump
</pre>

We convert storage engine in dump file:

<pre>
% sed -e 's/^) ENGINE=groonga/) ENGINE=mroonga/' database-groonga.dump > database-mroonga.dump
</pre>

We confirm that ENGINE=groonga only in CREATE TABLE is replaced with ENGINE=mroonga. We need to check @@ ... @@ line includes CREATE TABLE. If the line includes CREATE TABLE, the hunk will be a change for CREATE TABLE:

<pre>
% diff -up database-groonga.dump database-mroonga.dump
--- database-groonga.dump     2012-01-29 16:53:20.732624670 +0900
+++ database-mroonga.dump     2012-01-29 16:54:47.608420981 +0900
@@ -29,7 +29,7 @@ CREATE TABLE `diaries` (
   PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
   FULLTEXT KEY `title_index` (`title`),
   FULLTEXT KEY `body_index` (`body`)
-) ENGINE=groonga DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
+) ENGINE=mroonga DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
 /*!40101 SET character_set_client = @saved_cs_client */;

 --
</pre>

We drop the existing database:

<pre>
% mysql -u root -e 'DROP DATABASE MY_MROONGA_DATABASE'
</pre>

We upgrade to "mroonga" storage engine. We will use apt-get on Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu and yum on CentOS or Fedora.

apt-get:

<pre>
% sudo apt-get install -y mysql-server-mroonga
</pre>

yum:

<pre>
% sudo yum remove -y mysql-mroonga
% sudo yum install -y mysql-mroonga
</pre>

CAUTION!!!: We don't forget to run yum remove before yum install. If we forget to run yum remove, we will break a MySQL's system table.

We recreate a database:

<pre>
% mysql -u root -e 'CREATE DATABASE MY_MROONGA_DATABASE'
</pre>

We restore a database by modified dump file:

<pre>
% mysql -u root MY_MROONGA_DATABASE < database-mroonga.dump
</pre>

Now, we can use mroonga 1.20.

h3. Changes

Changes since 1.11: "Release 1.20 - 2012/01/29":/docs/news.html#release-1-20
