---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.10 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.10 has been released!
published: false
---

h2. Mroonga 3.10 has been released!

"Mroonga 3.10":/docs/news.html#release-3-09 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

Here is the topics for this release:

* Supported MariaDB 10.0.6

There are several bug fixes about updating column, we recommend to upgrade Mroonga.

h3. Supported MariaDB 10.0.6

In this release, we began to support MariaDB 10.0.6 which is released at November 18, 2013.

It is important to follow distribution's default packages, we don't provide official Mroonga packages(.deb or .rpm) for MariaDB 10.0.6.

There is one exception on Windows, On windows, we provides MariaDB bundled Mroonga 3.10 zip packages.

Here are MariaDB bundled Mroonga 3.10 zip packages(32bit and 64bit):

* "mariadb-10.0.6-with-mroonga-3.10-win32.zip":http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.6-with-mroonga-3.10-win32.zip
* "mariadb-10.0.6-with-mroonga-3.10-winx64.zip":http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.6-with-mroonga-3.10-winx64.zip

If you want to try on CentOS 6, you can use wing repository. (this is unofficial repository which Mroonga Project have nothing to do with.) 

Here is the details of "wing repository":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2013-July/001559.html [Note: written in japanese]

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.10 - 2013/11/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-10 about detailed changes since 3.09.

Let's search by Mroonga!
