---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.07 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.07 has been released!
---

h2. Mroonga 3.07 has been released!

"Mroonga 3.07":/docs/news.html#release-3-07 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are two topics for this release:

* Supported mroonga_escape experimentally
* Supported MariaDB 10.0.4

h3. Supported mroonga_escape experimentally

In this release, we began to support mroonga_escape experimentally.

mroonga needs query which is properly escaped if it contains special characters ( @+-><~*()"\:@ ).

This is because that mroonga is based on groonga as MySQL storage engine. mroonga is contructed by some layers (MySQL -> mroonga -> groonga). It is required to consider that special character has possibility to be interpreted each layer.

There is a bit problem how to escape for executing intended search.

For example, if you want to search '(example)', you have to escape query like following.

<pre>
mysql> SELECT * FROM test_escape WHERE MATCH(content) AGAINST('\\(example\\)*' IN BOOLEAN MODE);
</pre>

mroonga_escape treats such a case well. In this case, this query needs that '()' character is regarded as normal character, you need to pass '()' to mroonga_escape as second parameter.

Here is tha actual query:

<pre>
mysql> SELECT * FROM test_escape WHERE MATCH(content) AGAINST(mroonga_escape('(example)*', '()') IN BOOLEAN MODE);
</pre>

Now you can distinguish what you want to search and what you want to escape.

h3. Supported MariaDB 10.0.4

In this release, we began to support MariaDB 10.0.4 which is released at August 16, 2013.

mroonga provides packages which depends on distribution's default package, the chance to try mroonga with MariaDB 10.0.4 is limited to MariaDB bundled zip package for windows. (Since Fedora 19 release, MariaDB is adopted, but the version is 5.x serise)

If you want to try on CentOS 6, you can use wing repository. (this is unofficial repository which mroonga project have nothing to do with.) 

Here is the details of "wing repository":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2013-July/001559.html  [Note: written in Japanese]

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.07 - 2013/07/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-07 about detailed changes since 3.06.

Let's search by mroonga!
