---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.05 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.05 has been released!
---

Mroonga 3.05 has been released!
-------------------------------

[Mroonga 3.05](/docs/news.html#release-3-04) has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and
geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and
fulltext search engine.

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are two topics for this release:

-   Supported to enable fast mutexes option by build configuration
-   Supported MariaDB bundled mroonga for Windows

### Supported to enable fast mutexes option by build configuration

In this release, we began to support to enable fast mutexes by build
configuration.

There is nothing to do with you if you use groonga official packages
only, but there is a case that you want to use mroonga with fast mutexes
enabled MySQL packages which is provided other repository.

Note that mixed fast mutexes with/without configured packages make MySQL
crash.

How to enable fast mutexes by configure:

    ./configure --enable-fast-mutexes

How to enable fast mutexes by cmake:

    cmake -DWITH_FAST_MUTEXES=on

### Supported MariaDB bundled mroonga for Windows

There is no release for Windows for a long time. But, we began to
support windows binary experimentally.

It has been needed to modify a part of source code, we provides package
as a MariaDB bundled mroonga.

Download 32bit/64bit binary from following URL:

-   [mariadb-10.0.3-with-mroonga-3.05
    64bit](http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.3-with-mroonga-3.05-winx64.zip)

<!-- -->

-   [mariadb-10.0.3-with-mroonga-3.05
    32bit](http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.3-with-mroonga-3.05-win32.zip)

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.05 - 2013/06/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-05) about
detailed changes since 3.04.

Let's search by mroonga!
