---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.06 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.06 has been released!
---

h2. Mroonga 3.06 has been released!

"Mroonga 3.06":/docs/news.html#release-3-06 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

There are two topics for this release:

* Supported mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error session variable
* Supported Fedora 19

h3. Supported mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error session variable

In this release, we began to support mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error session variable.

It affects how to handle behavior on fulltext query error.

See following documentation about "mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error":http://mroonga.org/docs/reference/server_variables.html#mroonga-action-on-fulltext-query-error .

The default value of @mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error@ is ERROR_AND_LOG. This is the conventional behavior which is equal to old version of mroonga.

Here is the list of @mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error@ which you can use.

* ERROR	- Report an error. Logging is disabled.
* ERROR_AND_LOG	- Report an error. Logging is enabled. (This is the default)
* IGNORE - Just ignore an error. Logging is disabled.
* IGNORE_AND_LOG - Ignore an error, but logging is enabled. (Similar to InnoDB behavior)

Consider concrete example which causes syntax error .

<pre>
SELECT * FROM `test_mroonga` WHERE MATCH(`main`) AGAINST('(sample)*' IN BOOLEAN MODE);
</pre>

Here is the result of logging if you use @ERROR_AND_LOG@ or @IGNORE_AND_LOG@.

<pre>
...
2013-07-26 17:29:03.297739|e|ba4d8940|Syntax error! ((sample)*)
...
2013-07-26 17:29:03.300049|e|ba4d8940|failed to parse fulltext search keyword: <(sample)*>: <Syntax error! ((sample)*)>
...
</pre>

Otherwise, here is the result of logging if you use @ERROR@ or @IGNORE@.

<pre>
...
2013-07-26 17:38:53.847593|e|ba4d8940|Syntax error! ((sample)*)
...
</pre>

It affects that error logging of parsing fulltext keyword.

You can see that the difference between @ERROR@ and @IGNORE@ from logging results.

<pre>
$ mysql < error.sql
Variable_name	Value
mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error	ERROR
ERROR 1064 (42000) at line 23: failed to parse fulltext search keyword: <(sample)*>: <Syntax error! ((sample)*)>
$
</pre>

You can see that the parse error is reported if you use @ERROR@.

<pre>
$ mysql -u root < error.sql
Variable_name	Value
mroonga_action_on_fulltext_query_error	IGNORE
$
</pre>

You can see that the parse error is ignored if you use @IGNORE@.

h3. Supported Fedora 19

In this release, we began to support Fedora 19 which is released at July 2, 2013. (we also dropped Fedora 18 support)

Since Fedora 19 release, MariaDB is adopted and MySQL packages are renamed.

The result of 'sudo yum install mysql' installs MariaDB on Fedora 19, so it seems that it is not recommended to use MySQL package.

We would like to provide not only MySQL but also MariaDB supported package for Fedora 19.
But there is a critical bug for mariadb-mroonga package, so we have suspended to release package temporally.

We will plan to release mysql-mroonga and mariadb-mroonga package in the future.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.06 - 2013/07/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-06 about detailed changes since 3.05.

Let's search by mroonga!
