---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.04 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.04 has been released!
---

Mroonga 3.04 has been released!
-------------------------------

[Mroonga 3.04](/docs/news.html#release-3-04) has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and
geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and
fulltext search engine.

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

There are three topics for this release:

-   Supported W pragma
-   Supported Debian 8.0 (jessie)

### Supported W pragma

This release began to support ['W'
pragma](http://qwik.jp/senna/query.html).

You can specify target section and weight for the head of query.

Here is the syntax of 'W' pragma:

    *W[number1[:weight1][,number2[:weight2]]...

Here is the sample schema:

    CREATE TABLE diaries (
      id INT PRIMARY KEY,
      title VARCHAR(255),
      content TEXT,
      FULLTEXT INDEX (title, content)
    ) ENGINE=mroonga DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;

Here is the sample data:

    INSERT INTO diaries VALUES(1, "Hello", "Hello to groonga.");
    INSERT INTO diaries VALUES(2, "groonga", "Today's groonga.");
    INSERT INTO diaries VALUES(3, "mroonga", "Today's mroonga.");

Let's search groonga with 'W' pragma.

Note that the value of section about FULLTEXT INDEX is assigned by
following rule:

-   0 -&gt; 'title' column
-   1 -&gt; 'content' column

Consider the case that 10 weight is given to 'title' column, and 2
weight is given to 'content' column.

Here is the query such a case:

    SELECT *, MATCH(title, content) AGAINST("*W0:10,1:2 +groonga" in BOOLEAN MODE) AS score
      FROM diaries
      WHERE MATCH(title, content) AGAINST("*W0:10,1:2 +groonga" in BOOLEAN MODE);

Here is the output result:

    id    title   content score
    1 Hello   Hello to groonga.   2
    2 groonga Today's groonga.    12

The score value of 'id 2' is larger than 'id 1', because title column is
more biased than content column by the value of weight.

### Supported Debian 8.0 (jessie)

As Debian 7.0 (wheezy) has been released as a stable, we began to
support new Debian testing (Debian 8.0 jessie).

We will support old stable (squeeze) for a while, but we recommends to
migrate to wheezy as soon as possible.

We will announce later how long supports them.

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.04 - 2013/05/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-04) about
detailed changes since 3.03.

Let's search by mroonga!
