---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.11 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.11 has been released!
---

h2. Mroonga 3.11 has been released!

"Mroonga 3.11":/docs/news.html#release-3-11 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

Here is the topics for this release:

* Supported ORDER BY optimization for INT,DATETIME and TIME column
* Supported Fedora 20
* Dropped Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support

There is performance improvements and fixed memory leak issue related to fulltext search. We recommend upgrading to Mroonga 3.11.

h3. Supported ORDER BY optimization for INT,DATETIME and TIME column

In this release, ORDER BY optimization for INT,DATETIME and TIME column are supported.

There is a case that searching database by combination with fulltext search (MATCH AGAINST ...) and other type of column causes performance penalty if many records matches by fulltext search.

This issue is fixed by supporting ORDER BY optimazation for above type of columns. It also supports 'BETWEEN'. Note that Groonga 3.1.1 is required.

h3. Supported Fedora 20

In this release, we began to support Fedora 20 which is released at November 17, 2013.

Here is the install documentation for "Fedora 20":http://mroonga.org/docs/install.html#fedora-20

h3. Dropped Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support

In this release, Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid) support are dropped.

As Groonga dropped support for above release, it affects also Mroonga. See following blog entry why squeeze and lucid are dropped.

* "Drop package support for Debian 6.0(squeeze) and Ubuntu 10.04(lucid)":http://groonga.org/en/blog/2013/12/16/drop-squeeze-and-lucid-support.html

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 3.11 - 2013/12/29":/docs/news.html#release-3-11 about detailed changes since 3.10.

Let's search by Mroonga!
