---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 3.09 has been released!
description: Mroonga 3.09 has been released!
---

Mroonga 3.09 has been released!
-------------------------------

[Mroonga 3.09](/docs/news.html#release-3-09) has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and
geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and
fulltext search engine.

How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)

Here is the topics for this release:

-   Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)
-   Supported MySQL 5.5 on CentOS 5.10

### Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)

In this release, we began to support Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander)
which is released at October 17, 2013.

Here is the install documentation for [Ubuntu
13.10](http://mroonga.org/docs/install.html#ubuntu-13-10-saucy-salamander)

### Supported MySQL 5.5 on CentOS 5.10

In this release, we began to support MySQL 5.5 on CentOS 5.10 which is
released at October 18, 2013.

Basically, Mroonga provides packages which depends on distribution's
default package.
This is because it makes easy to install process about Mroonga, but
there is a problem that the version of MySQL on CentOS 5 is too old to
work with Mroonga.
It was inconvenient for Mroonga users, so we also provided MySQL
packages exceptionally on CentOS 5.

As CentOS 5.10 has been released, we decided to support MySQL
5.5(mysql55) packages which CentOS 5 provides.

Note that two packages are supported on CentOS 5 now. One is
mysql-mroonga which supports MySQL 5.6 (not recommended), The other is
mysql55-mroonga which support MySQL 5.5 (CentOS 5.10's)

It is important to follow distribution's default packages, we will stop
to update mysql-mroonga package in the future (we will plan to stop at
December release).

If you want to try Mroonga with other versions of MySQL on CentOS 6, you
can use wing repository. (this is unofficial repository which Mroonga
Project have nothing to do with, but very useful.)

Here is the details of [wing
repository](http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2013-July/001559.html)
[Note: written in japanese]

### Conclusion

See [Release 3.09 - 2013/10/29](/docs/news.html#release-3-09) about
detailed changes since 3.08.

Let's search by Mroonga!
