---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 4.02 has been released!
description: Mroonga 4.02 has been released!
---

h2. Mroonga 4.02 has been released!

"Mroonga 4.02":/docs/news.html#release-4-02 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

* How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html
* How to upgrade: "Upgrade guide":/docs/install.html#upgrade-guide

Here are topics in this release:

* Supports MariaDB 10.0.10 GA
* Fixes many bugs

h3. Supports MariaDB 10.0.10 GA

"MariaDB 10.0.10 GA (General Availability)":https://blog.mariadb.org/the-mariadb-foundation-announces-general-availability-of-mariadb-10/ was released at 31 Mar 2014. Mroonga 4.02 supports MariaDB 10.0.10. You can use Mroonga with MariaDB 10.0.10.

"Binaries for Windows":/docs/install.html#windows are also provided. They are built by "cosmo0920":https://github.com/cosmo0920 . Thanks!!!

h3. Fixes many bugs

This release includes many bug fixes. Most of them are reported by users. Thanks!!!

Here are fixed bugs in this release:

* [storage] Stopped to use truncate for @DELETE FROM table@. "[groonga-dev,02222]":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-April/002224.html [Reported by GMO Media, Inc.]
* [wrapper] Stopped to use truncate for @DELETE FROM table@.
* [storage] Fixed a bug that inplace alter table with no primary key crashes. "[groonga-dev,02227]":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-April/002229.html [Reported by GMO Media, Inc.]
* [storage] Fixed a bug that @ORDER BY function(vector_reference_column)@ doesn't work. "[groonga-dev,02234]":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-April/002236.html [Reported by Naoya Murakami]
* Fixed a bug that setting the current value to mroonga_default_parser or mroonga_log_file crash. "[GitHub#6]":https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/pull/6 [Patch by Satoshi MITANI]
* Fixed a bug that mroonga_lock_timeout in my.cnf or command line option is ignored. "[GitHub#7]":https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/pull/7 [Patch by GMO Media, Inc.]
* Fixed a bug that deleting by primary key doesn't update unique index. "[groonga-dev,02244]":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-April/002246.html [Reported by Akihiro Tsukui]

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 4.02 - 2014/04/29":/docs/news.html#release-4-02 about detailed changes since 4.01.

Let's search by Mroonga!
