---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 4.01 has been released!
description: Mroonga 4.01 has been released!
published: false
---

h2. Mroonga 4.01 has been released!

"Mroonga 4.01":/docs/news.html#release-4-01 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

Here is the topics for this release:

* Supported MariaDB 10.0.9
* Supported SCL MySQL package on CentOS 6
* Resolved the issue that the size of database increase

Note that Mroonga with Groonga 4.0.1 breaks forward compatibility for database.
You can't open Mroonga database in previous versions of Groonga after upgrading.

h3. Supported MariaDB 10.0.9

In this release, Mroonga supported MariaDB 10.0.9 whis is released at Mar 9, 2014.

On Debian/Ubuntu/CentOS/Fedora, Mroonga projects provides packages which depends on distribution's MySQL packages.
So, Mroonga packages for MariaDB 10.x is not released yet. On the otherhand, Mroonga projects provides MariaDB bundled Mroonga archives on Windows, now updated to bundled MariaDB version to 10.0.9.

Here is the URL for downloading MariaDB bundled Mroonga archives:

In this archive, Mroonga is already registered. by just extracting zip archive, you can try it!

* for 32bit environment, use "mariadb-10.0.9-with-mroonga-4.01-win32.zip":http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.9-with-mroonga-4.01-win32.zip

* for 64bit environment, use "mariadb-10.0.9-with-mroonga-4.01-winx64.zip":http://packages.groonga.org/windows/mroonga/mariadb-10.0.9-with-mroonga-4.01-winx64.zip

h3. Supported SCL MySQL package on CentOS 6

In this release, we supported SCL MySQL packages on CentOS 6. On CentOS 5, mysql55-mroonga package is already provided, so now just followed it.

Note that mysql-mroonga is marked as obsoleted. mysql-mroonga is not recommended to use. We recommends to use mysql55-mroonga package. (It means that you need to migrate MySQL 5.1 to MySQL 5.5. Dump/Restore database is required)

In this release, we provides mysql-mroonga for MySQL 5.1 and mysql55-mroonga for MySQL 5.5.
In the next release, we provides only mysql55-mroonga. (drop mysql-mroonga package)

Here is the status of release packages.

In the previous releases:

*  CentOS 6 i386 mysql-mroonga
*  CentOS 6 x86_64 mysql-mroonga

In this release:

*  CentOS 6 i386 mysql-mroonga only
*  CentOS 6 x86_64 mysql-mroonga/mysql55-mroonga

In the future release:

*  CentOS 6 i386 N/A
*  CentOS 6 x86_64 mysql55-mroonga

By supporing SCL package, The situation that CentOS 6 provides only MySQL 5.1 packages. There is no need to maintain MySQL 5.1 anymore. In the next release, we plan to drop MySQL 5.1 support.

h3. Resolved the issue that the size of database increase

In this release, the issue that the size of database increse is resolved.

Mroonga use Groonga as storage engine. Groonga 4.0.1 was improved to treat variable length more effectively. As a result, the issue that the size of database increse is resolved.

About details of this issue please refer to following post:

* "[ANN] Groonga 4.0.1":http://sourceforge.jp/projects/groonga/lists/archive/dev/2014-March/002167.html

Note that this feature is enabled by recreating database. if you continue to use existing database, it doesn't affect.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 4.01 - 2014/03/29":/docs/news.html#release-4-01 about detailed changes since 4.00.

Let's search by Mroonga!
