---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 4.00 has been released!
description: Mroonga 4.00 has been released!
---

h2. Mroonga 4.00 has been released!

"Mroonga 4.00":/docs/news.html#release-4-00 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

How to install: "Install":/docs/install.html

h3. Major version up to 4.00

Since Mroonga 3.00 had been released, there were many shipped improvements and remarkable features for Mroonga. So, it is a time to bump version to 4.00! :-)

Here are the brief list of changes since 3.00 release.

* Supported @utf8_unicode_ci@ and @utf8mb4_unicode_ci@ by groonga-normalizer-mysql. (3.01)
* Supported foreign key for storage mode (3.01)
* Added new UDF - mroonga_command (3.02)
* Supported custom normalizer for FULLTEXT INDEX. (3.03)
* Supported Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) (3.03)
* Dropped Ubuntu 11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot) support. (3.04)
* Supported "W" pragma. (3.04)
* Supported Debian 8.0 (jessie) (3.04)
* Added documentation about troubleshooting. (3.05)
* Added session variable - "mroonga-action-on-fulltext-query-error":/docs/reference/server_variables.html#mroonga-action-on-fulltext-query-error (3.06)
* Supported count skip optimization for wrapper mode even though MySQL 5.5 or MariaDB 10.x. (3.06)
* Supported Fedora 19. (3.06)
* Dropped Fedora 18 support. (3.06)
* Added new UDF - mroonga_escape (3.07)
* Supported VARCHAR equal expression in WHERE clause for ORDER BY LIMIT optimization. (3.07)
* Supported to call mroonga_escape as an argument of UDF. (3.08)
* Supported REPAIR TABLE in wrapper mode for broken Groonga database. (3.08)
* Supported Ubuntu 13.10 (Saucy Salamander). (3.09)
* Supported MySQL 5.5 rpm packages on CentOS 5. (3.09)
* Supported MariaDB 10.0.6 (3.10)
* Dropped Debian 6.0 (squeeze) support. (3.11)
* Dropped Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) support. (3.11)
* Supported optimization for "MATCH AGAINST AND DATETIME_COLUMN OPERATOR XXX ORDER BY LIMIT" query. (3.11)
* Supported 'BETWEEN' for INT_COLUMN, DATETIME_COLUMN and TIME_COLUMN. (3.11)
* Dropped Fedora 19 support. (3.11)
* Support Fedora 20. (3.11)
* Added new variable - mroonga_lock_timeout. (3.12)
* Improved compatibility with Tritonn's "W" pragma. (3.12)
* Dropped Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) support. (4.00)
* Fixed a bug that existing records may be unexectedlly removed by ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE. (4.00)

We could make many bug fixes and improvements based on your feedbacks, thanks!

During 3.x release, we had decided to use capitalized project name "Mroonga". Please use "Mroonga" instead of "mroonga" if you introduce "Mroonga" to your colleague.

h3. Conclusion

See "Release 4.00 - 2014/02/09":/docs/news.html#release-4-00 about detailed changes since 3.12.

Let's search by Mroonga!
