---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 5.01 has been released!
description: Mroonga 5.01 has been released!
published: false
---

## Mroonga 5.01 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 5.01](/docs/news.html#release-5-01) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Topics

* Supported `utf8_unicode_520_ci` and `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci`
* Supported Percona Server on CentOS 6/7
* [Experimental] Start to support MySQL 5.7

### Supported `utf8_unicode_520_ci` and `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci`

You can specify `utf8_unicode_520_ci` or `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci` to COLLATION. But the feature depends on [groonga-normalizer-mysql](https://github.com/groonga/groonga-normalizer-mysql) 1.0.9 (the latest version).

`utf8_unicode_520_ci` and `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci` are the UCA 5.2.0 version of `utf8_unicode_ci` and `utf8mb4_unicode_ci`. `utf8_unicode_520_ci` and `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci` are not supported in groonga-normalizer-mysql of 1.0.8 and earlier versions so they were replacing with the default normalizer (`NormalizerAuto`). Since the latest version, MySQL compatible normalizer (`NormalizerMySQLUnicode520CI`) is used so the behavior is close to MySQL.

Please update Mroonga carefully if you use `utf8_unicode_520_ci` or `utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci`, because the behavior changes at using COLLATION by such as the database reconstruction and column addition.

The following link will help you to specify COLLATION:

* [4.3.4. How to specify the normalizer — Mroonga v5.01 documentation](http://mroonga.org/docs/tutorial/storage.html#how-to-specify-the-normalizer)

### Supported Percona Server on CentOS 6/7

We support [Percona Server](http://www.percona.com/software/percona-server) that is a MySQL alternative database server. We provide Mroonga with Percona Server packages for CentOS 6 and 7. Please see [documentation](http://mroonga.org/docs/install/centos.html) for how to install.

### [Experimental] Start to support MySQL 5.7

We start to support MySQL 5.7 but it is not official support because MySQL 5.7 is development stage. It may include updated InnoDB FTS feature from MySQL 5.6. We are happy if you tell us the result of evaluation of Mroonga and InnoDB FTS.

We welcome your feedback!

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.01 - 2015-03-29](/docs/news.html#release-5-01) about detailed changes since 5.00.

Let's search by Mroonga!
