---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 5.00 has been released!
description: Mroonga 5.00 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 5.00 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 5.00](/docs/news.html#release-5-00) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)


### Major version up to 5.00

Since Mroonga 4.00 had been released, there were many shipped improvements and remarkable features for Mroonga. So, it is a time to bump version to 5.00! :-)

Here are the brief list of changes since 4.00 release.

* Supported MySQL (SCL) package on CentOS 6 (4.01)
* Followed MySQL/MariaDB updates (4.02)
* PPA was used to provide Ubuntu packages (4.03)
* Supported INPLACE ALTER TABLE (4.04)
* Supported CentOS 7 (4.05)
* Dropped Debian testing/unstable (4.06)
* Supported column compression and token filter (4.07)
* Fixed bugs and improved documents (4.08)
* Some improvements for advanced Mroonga users (4.09)
* Experimental improvements which use jemalloc for multi-threaded performance (4.10)

There were big news that Mroonga is bundled with MariaDB since 10.0.15. There were also Groonga derived many features.

### NOTICE: MariaDB 10.0.15/5.5.41 + Mroonga doesn't work

There is well-known "Lost connection" issue about MariaDB + Mroonga. It is the bug of MariaDB. Here is the detail of this bug.

* [Wrong implementation of checking PLUGIN_VAR_SET condition](https://mariadb.atlassian.net/browse/MDEV-7475)

Above issue is fixed MariaDB 10.0.16/5.5.42, but there is no update package for CentOS 6/CentOS 7.

So, following case causes this issue:

  * MariaDB 5.5.41 + Mroonga on CentOS 7
  * MariaDB 5.5.41(SCL) + Mroonga on CentOS 6

Because of this issue, Groonga project doesn't provide `mariadb-mroonga` package on CentOS 7 yet.

Note that it is MariaDB specific issue, there is nothing to do with MySQL.

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.00 - 2015-02-09](/docs/news.html#release-5-00) about detailed changes since 4.10.

Let's search by Mroonga!
