---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 5.11 has been released!
description: Mroonga 5.11 has been released!
published: false
---

## Mroonga 5.11 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 5.11](/docs/news.html#release-5.11) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

Here are changes in this release:

  * [RPM] Supported MySQL 5.6.28 and 5.7.10
  * Supported table name that includes `-` in script syntax
  * Added a new UDF `mroonga_normalize`
  * [wrapper mode] Really support `CHECK TABLE FOR UPGRADE`

#### [RPM] Supported MySQL 5.6.28 and 5.7.10

Supported MySQL 5.6.28 and 5.7.10 for RPM packages (mysql56-community-mroonga and mysql57-community-mroonga). See [2.5. CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html) for details how to install.

#### Supported table name that includes `-` in script syntax.

A table name that includes `-` can't be used in script syntax until Mroonga 5.10 because it conflicts to index table name separator. Since Mroonga 5.11, index table name separator is changed to `#` from `-`. It makes that table name that includes `-` can be used in script syntax.

#### Added a new UDF `mroonga_normalize`

oroonga provides some useful functionality as [UDF](/docs/reference/udf.html) (User Defined Functions). `mroonga_normalize` can normalize a string by a [normalizer of Groonga](http://groonga.org/docs/reference/normalizers.html). See [reference](/docs/reference/udf/mroonga_normalize) for details.

#### [wrapper mode] Really support `CHECK TABLE FOR UPGRADE` (`mysql_update`).

`CHECK TABLE FOR UPGRADE` (`mysql_update`) is supported since Mroonga 5.10. But this version has a bug that `CHECK TABLE FOR UPGRADE` drops other tables. This bug is fixed in Mroonga 5.11.

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.11 - 2015-12-29](/docs/news.html#release-5.11) about detailed changes since 5.10.

Let's search by Mroonga!
