---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 5.04 has been released!
description: Mroonga 5.04 has been released!
published: false
---

## Mroonga 5.04 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses groonga as a storage and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 5.04](/docs/news.html#release-5.04) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Topics

* Improve parameter names (there is compatibility to 6.XX)
* [storage] Improve handling of invalid datetime in `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode (incompatible)

### Improve parameter names (there is compatibility to 6.XX)

The following parameter names are modified. The old value are deprecated but they will be usable on Mroonga 6.XX. They may be removed at Mroonga 7.00.

* Changed keyword to use custom tokenizer to tokenizer from parser.
  * In index comment: `parser` -> `tokenizer`.
  * Server variable: `mroonga_default_parser` -> `mroonga_default_tokenizer`.
* Renamed parameter name for flags of index column.
  * `index_flags` -> `flags`.
* [storage] Renamed parameter name for column's Groonga type.
  * `type` -> `groonga_type`.

### [storage] Report error for invalid datetime in `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode (incompatible)

In storage mode, the behavior was changed when `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` is specified to `sql_mode`.

To insert is success with a warning if an invalid date (such as day 0) is specified until previous versions of Mroonga (5.02 or earlier). But a warning is handled as an error when `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode in MySQL. Mroonga storage mode adjusts to MySQL way.

It's incompatible change, but the previous behavior is a bug. If you don't use `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES` mode, it doesn't effect to you. For more information:

* [5. Limitations — Mroonga v5.04 documentation](http://mroonga.org/docs/reference/limitations.html#limitations-about-the-value-of-columns)

### Conclusion

See [Release 5.04 - 2015-06-29](/docs/news.html#release-5.04) about detailed changes since 5.03.

Let's search by Mroonga!
