---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 6.01 has been released!
description: Mroonga 6.01 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 6.01 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 6.01](/docs/news.html#release-6.01) has been released!

  * How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
  * How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

There are two topics in this release.

  * [Windows] Supported LZ4 column value compression
  * Supported fast phrase search with static indexes

#### [Windows] Supported LZ4 column value compression

LZ4 column value compression is supported Mroonga 4.07, but not on Windows for a long time.

In this release, Mroonga has supported LZ4 column value compression at last!

To enable this feature, use ``COMPRESS_LZ4`` flag:

```
content TEXT COMMENT 'flags "COLUMN_SCALAR|COMPRESS_LZ4"'
```

#### Supported fast phrase search with static indexes

This feature is not Mroonga's improvement. It is derived from Groonga, Mroonga has supported fast phrase search with static indexes when frequently used word and rarely used word are specified at the same time.

To enable this feature, set the following environment variable and execute offline index construction:

```
GRN_INDEX_CHUNK_SPLIT_ENABLE=1
```

And enable the following environment variable:

```
GRN_II_CURSOR_SET_MIN_ENABLE=1
```

This feature is disabled by default because it is not widely tested yet, but it is verified to improve phrase search performance in a test case.


### Conclusion

Please refer to [Release 6.01 - 2016-03-29](/docs/news.html#release-6.01) about detailed changes since 6.00.

Let's search by Mroonga!
