---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 6.02 has been released!
description: Mroonga 6.02 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 6.02 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 6.02](/docs/news.html#release-6-02) has been released!

  * How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
  * How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

There are three topics in this release.

  * End of support for Debian GNU/Linux 7.0 (Wheezy)
  * Supported Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus)
  * Fix compilation error with MySQL 5.7

#### End of support for Debian GNU/Linux 7.0 (Wheezy)

In this release, we decided to stop support for Debian GNU/Linux 7.0 (Wheezy).

Because Wheezy has been reached EOL in April 26th, 2016.
Although Wheezy is still supported as LTS until May 2018, we stop to provide Mroonga package for Wheezy.

We provide Mroonga package for Debian Jessie (8.0), so we recommend to migrate your Wheezy environment to Jessie.

  * [How to install in Debian GNU/Linux 8.0](http://mroonga.org/docs/install/debian.html#jessie)

#### Supported Ubuntu 16.04 LTS (Xenial Xerus)

From this release, we start to provide Mroonga package for Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial Xerus) in PPA on Launchpad.

For more information about how to install, please refer to the following document:

  * [How to install on Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial Xerus)](http://mroonga.org/docs/install/ubuntu.html)

#### Fix compilation error with MySQL 5.7

If you use our provided Mroonga package as-is, it does not encounter this issue. But, previous version, which has been released last month, contains a problem that causes compilation error with MySQL 5.7 when building from source.

In this release, this issue is now fixed.

### Conclusion

Please refer to [Release 6.02 - 2016-04-29](/docs/news.html#release-6-02) about detailed changes since 6.01.

Let's go all out to search by Mroonga!
