---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 6.10 has been released!
description: Mroonga 6.10 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 6.10 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 6.10](/docs/news.html#release-6-10) has been released!

  * How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
  * How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

We recommends to upgrade if you use `COUNT(*)` in InnoDB wrapper mode for MySQL 5.7.

### Changes

Here is the topics in this release.

* Supported Ubuntu 16.10 (Yakkety Yak)
* Supported Mroonga with MariaDB 10.x for Ubuntu 16.04 or later

#### Supported Ubuntu 16.10 (Yakkety Yak)

In this release, we began to support Ubuntu 16.10 (Yakkety Yak).

Mroonga packages are provided on PPA, you can install as follows:

    $ sudo apt-get install -y -V software-properties-common lsb-release
    $ sudo add-apt-repository -y universe
    $ sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu $(lsb_release --short --codename)-security main restricted"
    $ sudo add-apt-repository -y ppa:groonga/ppa
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install -y -V mysql-server-mroonga

### Supported Mroonga with MariaDB 10.x for Ubuntu 16.04 or later

In this release, we began to support Mroonga packages for MariaDB 10.x.

This support is provided for Ubuntu 16.04 or later because MariaDB 10.x packages are available on these releases and it aims to make it easy to try Mroonga for user of MariaDB.

To install Mroonga package for MariaDB, use `mariadb-server-mroonga`.

    $ sudo apt-get install -y -V mariadb-server-mroonga

### Conclusion

Please refer to [Release 6.10 - 2016-10-29](/docs/news.html#release-6-10-2016-10-29) about detailed changes since 6.09.

Let's go all out to search by Mroonga!
