---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 6.08 has been released!
description: Mroonga 6.08 has been released!
published: false
---

## Mroonga 6.08 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 6.08](/docs/news.html#release-6-07) has been released!

  * How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
  * How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

There are two topics in this release.

  * Limitation about the maximum number record is relaxed
  * Fixed compile error with GCC 6

#### Limitation about the maximum number record is relaxed

A table had the following limitations. This limitation is derived from Groonga.

* The maximum one key size: 4KiB
* The maximum total size of keys: 4GiB
* The maximum number of records: 268,435,455 (more than 268 million)

In the past, the maximum number of records is announced as 268 million.

With recent research, it turns out that there is a capability to store more records than ever.

Here is the updated limitation about the maximum number of records:

  * No primary key table: 1,073,741,815 (2^30 - 9)
  * ``PRIMARY KEY`` or ``PRIMARY KEY USING BTREE`` table: 1,073,741,823 (2^30 - 1)
  * ``PRIMARY KEY USING HASH`` table: 536,870,912 (2^29)

Keep in mind that these limitations may vary depending on conditions.

#### Fixed compile error with GCC 6

In this release, compile error with GCC 6.1.1 was fixed.

If you failed to compile Mroonga from source archive, please confirm whether the version of GCC is matched to GCC 6.1.1.

### Conclusion

Please refer to [Release 6.08 - 2016-08-29](/docs/news.html#release-6-08-2016-08-29) about detailed changes since 6.07.

Let's go all out to search by Mroonga!
