---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 6.03 has been released!
description: Mroonga 6.03 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 6.03 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 6.03](/docs/news.html#release-6-03) has been released!

  * How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
  * How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

There are three topics in this release.

  * Supported Percona Server 5.7 on CentOS 6/7
  * Supported query format `as` keywords for `mroonga_snippet_html`
  * Fixed a bug that full text index against multibyte column doesn't work

#### Supported Percona Server 5.7 on CentOS 6/7

In this release, we began to provide Mroonga package for Percona Server 5.7 on CentOS 6 and CentOS 7.

(In the previous version - Mroonga 6.02, we made a package for them unofficially, in this release, we decided to provide these packages officially.)

Please refer to document how to install it:

  * [CentOS 6(with Percona Server 5.7 package)](http://mroonga.org/docs/install/centos.html#centos-6-with-percona-server-5-7-package)
  * [CentOS 7(with Percona Server 5.7 package)](http://mroonga.org/docs/install/centos.html#centos-7-with-percona-server-5-7-package)

#### Supported query format `as` keywords for `mroonga_snippet_html`

From this release, we start to support `AS` keyword for `mroonga_snippet_html`.

`mroonga_snippet_html` is a convenient UDF of [mroonga_snippet](http://mroonga.org/docs/reference/udf/mroonga_snippet.html) which was added since Mroonga 5.09. You can use `AS` keyword like this::

    SELECT mroonga_snippet_html('...', 'SOME KEYWORDS' AS query)

#### Fixed a bug that full text index against multibyte column doesn't work

Since Mroonga 6.02, multibyte column name was supported, but there is a bug that full text index against multibyte column doesn't work. In this release, this bus is fixed.

If you use Mroonga 6.02 and using full text index against multibyte column, please upgrade to Mroonga 6.03 and re-build indexes.

### Conclusion

Please refer to [Release 6.03 - 2016-05-29](/docs/news.html#release-6-03) about detailed changes since 6.02.

Let's go all out to search by Mroonga!
