---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 7.10 has been released!
description: Mroonga 7.10 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 7.10 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 7.10](/docs/news.html#release-7.10) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

In this release, some improvements for optimization and speedup are included. It also have experimental features, so we are glad if you try the feature and report to us.

And, Groonga 7.1.0 or later is required from this release. Note that you will need to restart MySQL after upgrading to Mroonga 7.10.

The main changes are as follows.

* [Experimental] Made it possible to always enable condition push down
* Improved performance for to get fixed size column value
* Supported count skip optimization with multi column index
* [CentOS] Supported Percona Server 5.6.38 and 5.7.20
* Supported MariaDB 10.3

### [Experimental] Made it possible to always enable condition push down

Added some variables related to condition push down (Optimization to process search condition at Groonga level rather than MySQL level).

* [Mroonga_condition_push_down](/docs/reference/status_variables.html#status-variable-mroonga-condition-push-down)
  * This value is increased when condition push down is used. You can use this value to check whether condition push down is used or not.
* [mroonga_condition_push_down_type](/docs/reference/server_variables.html#server-variable-mroonga-condition-push-down-type)
  * It controls how to enable condition push down support.

The default value is `ONE_FULL_TEXT_SEARCH`. It means that condition push down is enabled only when `WHERE` clause has one `MATCH AGAINST` condition.  It is the same behavior as before.

If the value `ALL` is set, condition push down is always used (ALL is experimental for now. We are glad if you use it and tell us if it got faster or not).

Setting the value of `mroonga_condition_push_down_type` to `ALL` will always use condition push down, which is expected to be faster.
However, `ALL` is an experimental feature for now. We are glad if you to use it and tell us if it got faster or not.
The setting method is as follows.

    SET mroonga_condition_push_down_type = ALL

Please choose an easy-to-use way for you from the following links.
Even if it goes well, it will be nice if you let me know if it does not work.
If it fails, please add logs and reproduction steps to the report.

* [GitHub issues](https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/issues)
* [Community](/docs/community.html)

We are waiting for your report.

### Improved performance for to get fixed size column value

Supported column cache when to get fixed size column value to improve performance.
This function needs to Groonga 7.1.0 or later, Groonga 7.1.0 or later is required from Mroonga 7.10 as described above.

### Supported count skip optimization with multi column index

Enable count skip optimization for multi-column index. For details of count skip optimization, refer to the [reference manual](/docs/reference/optimizations.html#row-count).

### [CentOS] Supported Percona Server 5.6.38 and 5.7.20

In this release, Percona Server 5.6.38 and 5.7.20 has been supported.
RPM packages are ready for above versions on CentOS 6 and CentOS 7.

### Supported MariaDB 10.3

Supported MariaDB 10.3. If you are using MariaDB 10.3, please try it. Packages for CentOS will be released soon.

### Conclusion

See [Release 7.10 - 2017-12-29](/docs/news.html#release-7.10) about detailed changes since 7.09.

Let's search by Mroonga!
