---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 9.03 has been released!
description: Mroonga 9.03 has been released!
published: false
---

## Mroonga 9.03 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 9.03](/docs/news.html#release-9-03) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

The main changes are as follows.

  * Added support for `INDEX_LARGE` flag.
  * Added support for latest MySQL/MariaDB/Percona Server.
  * Added support for MariaDB 10.1/10.2 windows packages again.

### Added support for `INDEX_LARGE` flag

In this release, `INDEX_LARGE` flags is supported.

This flag is used to create index which supports large data.
In this context, "large data" depends on its data. But there is a indicator for it - normally at least 10 millions records and targets are multiple columns or index table has tokenizer.

You can specify `INDEX_FLAG` in `COMMENT`.

```sql
CREATE TABLE memos (
  content VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL,
  KEY (content) COMMENT 'flags "INDEX_LARGE"'
) ENGINE=Mroonga DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8mb4;
```

Note that `INDEX_FLAG` requires 2 times larger memory usage than the default index column.

### Added support for latest MySQL/MariaDB/Percona Server

In this release, the following latest MySQL/MariaDB/Percona Server has been supported.

* MySQL 5.6.44, 5.7.26
* MariaDB 10.1.40.
* MariaDB 10.2.24.
* MariaDB 10.3.14, 10.3.15.
* Percona Server 5.6.44.

### Added support for MariaDB 10.1/10.2 windows packages again

In the previous version, we don't officially announced it yet.
We began to provide not only MariaDB 10.3 bundled windows package, but also 10.1 and 10.2 package too.

If you use older version of MariaDB (10.1 or 10.2) bundled Mroonga, and not yet upgraded, it is a time to upgrade from it.

* [mariadb-10.1.40-with-mroonga-9.03-win32.zip](https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/releases/download/v9.03/mariadb-10.1.40-with-mroonga-9.03-win32.zip)
* [mariadb-10.1.40-with-mroonga-9.03-winx64.zip](https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/releases/download/v9.03/mariadb-10.1.40-with-mroonga-9.03-winx64.zip)
* [mariadb-10.2.24-with-mroonga-9.03-win32.zip](https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/releases/download/v9.03/mariadb-10.2.24-with-mroonga-9.03-win32.zip)
* [mariadb-10.2.24-with-mroonga-9.03-winx64.zip](https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/releases/download/v9.03/mariadb-10.2.24-with-mroonga-9.03-winx64.zip)

### Conclusion

See [Release 9.03 - 2019-05-29](/docs/news.html#release-9-03) about detailed changes since 9.01.

Let's search by Mroonga!
