---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 9.04 has been released!
description: Mroonga 9.04 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 9.04 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 9.04](/docs/news.html#release-9-04) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

The main changes are as follows.

  * Added support for MySQL 8 packages experimentally.

  * Fixed a crash bug with ``((MATCH OR MATCH) AND (MATCH))`` query.

### Added support for MySQL 8 packages

In this release, Mroonga package which supports MySQL 8 are available on CentOS.

* [Install Mroonga packages on CentOS 6](/docs/install/centos.html#centos-6-with-the-oracle-mysql-8-0-package)
* [Install Mroonga packages on CentOS 7](/docs/install/centos.html#centos-7-with-the-oracle-mysql-8-0-package)

This is experimental, so if you found a bug or doubt behavior, please report to us!

Here is the documentation about "How to report a bug".

* [How to report a bug](/docs/contribution/report.html)

Here are already known issues about MySQL 8.0

* [Wrapper mode](/docs/tutorial/wrapper.html) Wrapper mode is not supported yet
* [Storage mode](/docs/tutorial/wrapper.html) `JSON` data type is not supported yet

### Fixed a crash bug with ``((MATCH OR MATCH) AND (MATCH))`` query.

In this release, a crash bug was fixed. This crash bug was occurred when `((MATCH AGAINST (...) OR MATCH AGAINST(...)) AND (MATCH AGAINST(...)))` was used in where clause.

Mroonga has condition push down feature (Optimization to process search condition at Groonga level rather than MySQL level). This bug was derived from incorrect handling of above query optimization.

### Conclusion

See [Release 9.04 - 2019-06-29](/docs/news.html#release-9-04) about detailed changes since 9.03.

Let's search by Mroonga!
