---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 11.04 has been released!
description: Mroonga 11.04 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 11.04 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 11.04](/docs/news.html#release-11-04) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

The main changes are as follows.

### Improvements

* [Server variables](/docs/reference/server_variables.html) We disabled ``mroonga_enable_operations_recording`` by default.

  ``mroonga_enable_operations_recording`` to determine whether recording operations for auto recovering are enabled or not. 

  This recording of operations is for auto recovering Mroonga when it crashed.
  Normally, if lock remain in Mroonga, we can't execute INSERT/DELETE/UPDATE,
  but if ``mroonga_enable_operations_recording`` is enable, we may not execute
  SELECT at times in addition to INSERT/DELETE/UPDATE.
  Because auto recovery is sometimes blocked by residual lock when they crashed.

  Therefore, we set ``OFF`` to the default value in this version.
  By we disable operation recording, INSERT/DELETE/UPDATE is blocked as usual
  because of the residual lock, but "SELECT" may bework.

  An appropriate way to handle to residual lock is as follows.

    * https://www.clear-code.com/blog/2021/6/1/mroonga-recover-lock-failed-2021.html
      (Japanese only)

* [Debian GNU/Linux](/docs/install/debian.html) Added a install procedure for Mroonga for Debian GNU/Linux with Oracle MySQL package.

  We supoort Mroonga for Debian GNU/Linux with Oracle MySQL package in Mroonga 11.03.
  We wrote install procedure for these package to this documentation.
  When we will install these packages, please refer to this documentation.

* [CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html)  Added support for MariaDB 10.2.39, 10.3.30, 10.4.20, and 10.5.11.

### Fixes

* Fix a crash bag when we execute search

  **This issue doesn't occur under normal use.**

  The occurrence condition is as below.

    * We directly make tables and columns on Groonga by using ``mroonga_command``.
    * We execute search at the same time as delete the above tables and columns.

  When the above conditions are established, Mroonga might crash.

### Conclusion

See [Release 11.04 - 2021-06-29](/docs/news.html#release-11-04) about detailed changes since 11.03.

Let's search by Mroonga!
