---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 11.03 has been released!
description: Mroonga 11.03 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 11.03 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 11.03](/docs/news.html#release-11-03) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Important notice

There are a few words caution about upgrade to this version.
If we upgrade to this version, please always be sure to confirm below points.

1.
  * The package names are changed from this release.
    **Mroonga may be invalid after upgrade to this version** by the influence of this modification.

  * If Mroonga is invalid after the upgrade, **we need to install manually Mroonga again.**
    Please refer to the following URL about the manual installation of Mroonga and how to confirming whether Mroonga is valid or not.

    * [Installation check](/docs/tutorial/installation_check.html)

  * Besides, please be careful **the above phenomenon will continue from now if we will upgrade mroonga to stride over a Mroonga 11.03**.

  * If Mroonga is valid after upgrade to this version but, Mroonga's version is old, we need to restart MySQL, MariaDB, or PerconaServer.

    * We can confirm Mroonga's version as the below command.

      * ``SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'mroonga_version';``

2.
  * There are **broken backward compatibility** on this version.

  * Users that are **using ``GEOMETRY`` type need to store the current data before upgrading to Mroonga 11.03 and restore the stored data after upgrading to Mroonga 11.03.**

  * Users can use the following methods for dumping/restoring data.

    * ``mysqldump``
    * Execute ``ALTER TABLE ENGINE=InnoDB`` before upgrading and execute ``ALTER TABLE ENGINE=Mroonga`` after upgrading.

### Changes

The main changes are as follows.

### Improvements

* Renamed package names as below.

  * ``mariadb-server-10.x-mroonga`` -> ``mariadb-10.x-mroonga``
  * ``mysql-server-5.x-mroonga`` -> ``mysql-community-5.x-mroonga``
  * ``mysql-server-8.x-mroonga`` -> ``mysql-community-8.x-mroonga``
  * ``percona-server-5x-mroonga`` -> ``percona-server-5.x-mroonga``
  * ``percona-server-8x-mroonga`` -> ``percona-server-8.x-mroonga``

* [Debian GNU/Linux](/docs/install/debian.html) Added support for the Oracle MySQL 5.7 package and the Oracle MySQL 8.0 package.

  * In this release, we newly provided the package of Mroonga for Debian GNU/Linux with the Oracle MySQL 5.7 and the Oracle MySQL 8.0.

    * By this, we make the Docker image of Mroonga with MySQL for Docker official images.

  * There are below restrictions in the MySQL8 package.

    * [Wrapper mode](/docs/tutorial/wrapper.html) Wrapper mode is not supported yet.

    * [Storage mode](/docs/tutorial/storage.html) Storage mode does not support the following feature.

      * The feature of relevant to the optimization.

* Added support for the SRID of Spatial Indexes.

  * the index of Mroonga is used in search with ``MBRContains`` function on MySQL 8.x since this release.

* We added condition expressions that are applied condition push down.

  **Note**

    * Condition push down doesn't evaluate condition expressions in MySQL, but it evaluate condition expressions in Mroonga.

     * Therefore, more queries will become high-performance, but the result of search may different than usual by Mroonga evaluate them.**

     * If Mroonga returns unexpected search results, we request that you report from the below URL. And we would like you to invalid for condition push down.

       * https://github.com/mroonga/mroonga/issues/

     * We can invalid condition push down as below.

       * ``SET GLOBAL mroonga_condition_push_down_type = "NONE"``

* [CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html) Added support for Percona Server 8.0.23

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug that latitude and longitude are stored conversely.

  **Important**

     * backward compatibility is broken by this fix.

     * Users that are using ``GEOMETRY`` type need to store the current data before upgrading to Mroonga 11.03 and restore the stored data after upgrading to Mroonga 11.03.
     Users can use the following methods for dumping/restoring data.

       * ``mysqldump``
       * Execute ``ALTER TABLE ENGINE=InnoDB`` before upgrading and execute ``ALTER TABLE ENGINE=Mroonga`` after upgrading.

     * If without this fix, ``INSERT/UPDATE/SELECT/SELECT`` works well but data stored in Groonga are wrong (Latitude and longitude are swapped in Groonga). Therefore, ``mroonga_command('select ...')`` doesn't work for spatial data.

### Conclusion

See [Release 11.03 - 2021-05-31](/docs/news.html#release-11-03) about detailed changes since 11.02.

Let's search by Mroonga!
