---
layout: post.en
title: Mroonga 12.10 has been released!
description: Mroonga 12.10 has been released!
---

## Mroonga 12.10 has been released!

Mroonga is a MySQL storage engine that supports fast fulltext search
and geolocation search. It is CJK ready. It uses Groonga as a storage
and fulltext search engine.

[Mroonga 12.10](/docs/news.html#release-12-10) has been released!

* How to install: [Install](/docs/install.html)
* How to upgrade: [Upgrade guide](/docs/upgrade.html)

### Changes

The main changes are as follows.

### Improvements

* [CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html), [AlmaLinux](/docs/install/almalinux.html) Added support for MariaDB 10.3.37, 10.4.27, 10.5.18, 
  10.6.11, 10.7.7, 10.8.6, 10.9.4.

* [CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html), [AlmaLinux](/docs/install/almalinux.html) Added support for Percona Server 8.0.30-22.

* [CentOS](/docs/install/centos.html) Added support for Percona Server 5.7.40-43.

* [Windows](/docs/install/windows.html) Added support for MariaDB 10.7, 10.8, 10.9.

* [Windows](/docs/install/windows.html) Dropped support for 32bit versions.

  Because recent MariaDB can't be built for 32bit Windows, and the official packages for 32bit don't exist.

* [mroonga_highlight_html()](/docs/reference/udf/mroonga_highlight_html.html) Added new parameters: `open_tag` and `close_tag`.

  Now we can specify a tag for highlighting with `open_tag` and `close_tag`.

  It was inconvinient for us to unable specifying different tags or changing `class` because the fixed tag `<span class="keyword">...</span>` was used.
  Now, this new parameter provides more convenience for us because it allows specifying tags to highlight, such as `<mark>...</mark>`.

  ```
  SELECT mroonga_highlight_html('Mroonga is the Groonga based storage engine.', 'groonga',
                                '<mark>' AS open_tag, '</mark>' AS close_tag) AS highlighted;

  -- +-----------------------------------------------------------+
  -- | highlighted                                               |
  -- +-----------------------------------------------------------+
  -- | Mroonga is the <mark>Groonga</mark> based storage engine. |
  -- +-----------------------------------------------------------+
  ```

  Please refer to [mroonga_highlight_html()](/docs/reference/udf/mroonga_highlight_html.html) for details.

* Added support for reference count mode.

  Though this feature can keep fixed memory usage, its performance would be dropped.
  Thus, memory increments should be first consideration before using this feature.

  The reference count mode is used with [table_open_cache](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html#sysvar_table_open_cache) of MySQL.

  MySQL can cache specified number of tables with `table_open_cache`.
  Groonga's object would not be released because the cached tables are still in use.

  The tables with low usage would be closed if number of open tables is larger than number specified with `table_open_cache`.
  Groonga objects would be released at the same time with table closing if the reference count mode is enabled.

  These are how the reference count mode keep fixed memory usage.

  For actual use, we need to adjust balance between memory usage and perfomance with value of `table_open_cache` while checking
  memory usage and value of status variables [Open_tables](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-status-variables.html#statvar_Open_tables). 
  Because this feature can keep fixed memory usage, but its performance would be dropped.

  There is how to check `Open_tables` as follows.

  ```
  SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'Open_tables';
  -- +---------------+-------+
  -- | Variable_name | Value |
  -- +---------------+-------+
  -- | Open_tables   | 643   |
  -- +---------------+-------+
  ```

  Normally, all of tables in use are cached by setting `table_open_cache` larger than `Open_tables`.
  However, if there is limited memory, memory usage would be decreased by releasing memory for tables with low usage dropping from the cache.
  In order to releasing tables with low usage from the cache, `table_open_cache` should be set smaller than `Open_tables`.
  The smaller `Open Tables` setting , the more tables dropping from the cache.
  As cache is released, memory usage decrease, yet performance become worse due to reopen tables.
  The smaller `table_open_cache`, the more necessary to reopen tables. `table_open_cache` should set as much value as only to reaching memory tolerance.

  In order to enable reference count mode, we need to specify values in my.cnf as follows;

  ```
  loose-mroonga-enable-reference-count = ON
  ```

  Note: The reference count mode would not be enabled with variables after booting MySQL.
  It is necesarry to specify values in my.cnf.

  ```
  SET GLOBAL mroonga_enable_reference_count = ON
  ```

### Fixes

* Fixed a bug that Mroonga for Windows does not bundle groonga-normalizer-mysql.

  It was false announcement in 12.09 that groonga-normalizer-mysql is bundled in.

### Conclusion

Please refer to [release note](/docs/news.html#release-12-10) about the detail of changes in this release.

Let's search by Mroonga!
